# Glossary of basic concepts
If there is a word you did not understand, try to use `Ctrl` + `F` to search for it here.  

You can also treat it as a quick intro to programming (or a reminder) that can be read through manually.
<div style="font-size: 2em; text-align: center;">
<br>↓
<br>↓
<br>↓
<br>↓
</div>
---  

## I Computer science basics
I think most of us know what programming languages, algorithms and code are.  
But some other words might be a bit vague and it is important to draw distinctions.

Words defined:
1. **Variable**
2. **Datatype**
3. **Function**
4. **Function call**

<details><summary>Click here</summary>

### Variable
It is the place where you store data, that you can name whatever you want.
Let's observe statements such as `x = 5` or `john = 3.1415`.

`x` and `john` are variables.  
`5` and `3.1415` are values.  
Using the equals sign `=` assigns some value to our variables.  

We may assign different values to the same variable, each time overriding the old value.  
```
x = 5;
x = 3;
print(x)
``` 
will print out `3`.

---  

### Data type
All values in variables have a data type - such as:
1. `integer` - whole numbers (5, 22, -7)
2. `string` - text surrounded by quotes ("Hello world", "You have $21,000 in your account", "p@ssw0rd")
3. `boolean` - binary value (True, False)
4. `list` - contains multiple values within it (["John", "Mark", "Luke", "Mathew"])
5. `None` - emptiness, nothingness  
...and many more.

These data types are called "primitives" and are something built into a programming languages.  
Every programming language has a different set of datatypes. (Even the same ones can be called differently)  
Many allow you to define your own datatypes. This leads us to the OOP section.

Note: Each datatype determines which operations you are allowed to do with data. So, you could sort a list, or negate a boolean; but you couldn't divide a string by 5 or sort an integer.

---  

### Function  
It is a section of a code (also called "body of the function").  
It has inputs (called "arguments"/"parameters") and outputs (also called "return values").  
Every function has its own name.  

It is preferable to section off your code in several functions - as it leads to ["modular code"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modular_programming).  
The alternative is ["spaghetti code"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spaghetti_code)  

They are especially important to use if you do the same set of operations over and over again.  
You should never copy paste the same code block in these situations, but rather use functions.  

Here's how you can make your own function in Python:
```
def calculate_circumference(circleRadius):
    pi = 3.141592653589793
    circ = 2 * pi * circleRadius
    return circ
```

Functions can have no inputs and/or no outputs.  

---  

### Calling a function
When you want to use your function with some specific inputs and to get specific outputs, you need to **call your function**.  
You do it by typing out the name of your function, followed by brackets that have the input values.  

Let's take our function from before, and call it.
```
result1 = calculate_circumference(5)
result2 = calculate_circumference(33)
```

That's it. Those lines of code are called **function calls**.

---  

#### Fun fact:
What is really cool about Python, and not very common across programming languages:  
*You are able to store functions in variables.* It looks like this:  
`func = calculate_circumference #make sure not to write the brackets`  

You may later do a function call over that variable, like so:  
`func(3)` will be equivalent to saying `calculate_circumference(3)`.  

Even if not obvious at the moment, this does have its uses, and is actually something used in `brlopack` (`doOperation` method takes a function as an input argument)
</details>
---  

## II Python basics
Cuurently has only one word:
1. **Package**

<details><summary>Click here</summary>
---  

### Package
A package in Python is similar to libraries in other programming languages.  
It is a bundle of useful functions and/or classes.  
Anyone can make a package and publish it online, for free, for others to use.  

It is comprised of multiple `.py` files called "modules".  
We can make our own packages and use them locally. More commonly, we install packages from the Internet using one of package managers such as `pip` or `conda`.  
Only after downloading and installing them, may we choose to import them in one of our specific Python scripts by writing `import [package_name_here]`.  

</details>
---  

## III Basic OOP - class vs object
Python supports OOP and it is used somewhat extensively in this project.  
When explaining things in Jupyter Notebooks I often use words such as:
1. **Class**
2. **Object**
3. **Field**
4. **Method**

It is important not to mix them up.
<details><summary>Click here</summary>

---  

### Class
A **class** is a concept in programming. (Specifically in OOP - Object Oriented Paradigm)  
Definition: A class represents a neat bundle of data and methods to do over that data.  
(Specifically it has its own variables - called **fields**; and its own functions over those variables - called **methods**)


You, as the programmer, may define a class to contain whichever data and methods you want. It represents your own *custom* datatype (unlike the built-in primitive datatypes).  

It is merely a blueprint and carries no data within itself.  

You can read more about it here: https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Class_(programming)

---  

### Object 
Object is a specific instance of a class. It caries specific data within itself.  
For example a class can be called `Student`, so you could have objects called `Bill`, `Jeff`, `Doug`, or `stud`, `s1` etc.   

***Classes are data types, while objects are variables.***  

---  

### Field
Variable defined within a class.  
A field in a class doesn't have any values (it's just a variable).  
Fields get their values in objects. Field of a same name has different values in different objects.  

For example:  
Let there be a class named `Student` that has fields `name` and `gpa`.  
Object named `stud1` can have `name = "John"` and `gpa = 10.0` while `stud2` can have `name = "Mark"` and `gpa = 7.33`.  

Conclusion: `Student` doesn't have any values/data in its fields, but `stud1` and `stud2` do have data in their fields.

---  

### Method
Function defined within a class. It serves to mostly work over fields of an object (but doesn't have to, described in "Medium OOP"). 
It can also take inputs and return outputs, like any normal function.  

Ideally you don't want others to access fields of your class directly, but to use methods as the only means of interaction.  
When used like this, methods provide a level of protection to the data integrity.
</details>
---  

## IV Medium OOP - more on fields and methods
There are a few other important things:
1. **Method calls**
2. **Dot operator** 
3. **Static methods and static fields** (optional)
   
<details><summary>Click here</summary>

---  

### Method calls
Methods, like all functions, can be called. To do so, we need to use the "dot operator"  
`object_name.method_name()`  

---  

### Dot operator 
To access an object's fields and methods, you need to use the `.` (dot operator).  
```
def class Student:
    def __init__(self, name, gpa):
        self.name = name
        self.gpa = gpa
    
    def increaseGPA(x):
        self.gpa += x

Student s = Student("John", 4.0)
print(s.name) # Will print "John"

s.increaseGPA(-0.5)
print(s.gpa) # Will print 3.5
```
You can do this only over objects, not classes, because how can Python magically know which values to show or which values to run the method over? Remember, classes don't have values, but objects do:
```
Student.increaseGPA(0.3) #cannot work
Student.name #cannot work
```
---  

### Static methods and static fields
These are the exception to the rule of working only over objects, not classes.  
Generally you will not need this for working with `brlopack`.  

Static methods do not need to use any object-specific values (but may use static fields)
```
def class Math():
    pi = 3.141592653589793
    
    def sqrt(number):
        return number**0.5
    
    def circumference(radius):
        return 2 * radius *pi

a = Math.sqrt(25) # Will return 5
print(Math.pi) # Will print 3.141592653589793
Math.circumference(a) # Will return 31.41592653589793
```
</details>
---  

# Conclusion
I think that covers the (12 thus far) important words.  
This is subject to change, if necessary more words will be added.